README.md, before:

# Wechaty Getting Started [![Powered by Wechaty](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20By-Wechaty-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/chatie/wechaty)

[![Node.js CI](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/workflows/Node.js%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Node.js+CI%22)
![Node.js v12](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D12-green.svg)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

[Wechaty](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty/) is a Conversational SDK for Chatbot Makers. It's well designed with a very easy to use API, supports all platforms including Linux, OSX, Win32, and Docker.

As a developer, you can use Wechaty to easily build your bot, effectively manage message sending/receiving, room creating/inviting, contact friendship, and delightful add artificial intelligence between users and your bot.

[![GitPod Ready-to-Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-Ready--to--Code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started)

This repository should work out-of-the-box, and is the best start point for Wechaty beginners.

## Features

1. Works out-of-the-box under Linux/Mac/Windows.
1. Supports all puppets like Web, Pad, Windows, and Mac.
1. Reply a `dong` message when it received a `ding`.

## Requirements

1. Node.js v12+
1. Build Tools for your platform
1. Wechaty TOKEN(if you want to use protocols other than Web)
    - Apply from our [Wechaty Puppet Service Providers](https://github.com/wechaty/puppet-service-providers)

## Getting Started

### 1 Install Node.js (>=12)

If you have not installed Node.js(or version is below 10),You need to install the latest version of Node.js first by following the links below:

- [Windows](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#windows)
- [Linux(Debian/Ubuntu)](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions)
- [macOS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#macos)

> Instal Node.js for other platforms can be found at <https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/>

### 2 Clone this Repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started.git
cd wechaty-getting-started
```

### 3 Install Dependencies

```sh
npm install
```

### 4 Run the Bot

```sh
npm start
```

Or use node to run bot directly

```shell
# Linux: export WECHATY_LOG=verbose
# Win32: set WECHATY_LOG=verbose
npx ts-node examples/ding-dong-bot.ts
```

You are all set!

## Working with Different Puppets

By default, the Wechaty will use the Web protocol (`wechaty-puppet-puppeteer`) for logging in bot.

If you want to use other protocols instead of the Web protocol, then you need to specified a puppet service provider other than the `wechaty-puppet-puppeteer`.

Thanks for the great contributions from our great community, there are many puppet service providers can be used by Wechaty, which helps us to use protocols like Web, Pad, Mac, and Windows.

In order to specify a puppet service provider, you can set the environment `WECHATY_PUPPET` to the specific NPM module name.

### Wechaty Puppet Service Providers

| Protocol | NPM |
| :--- | :--- |
| Web | `wechaty-puppet-puppeteer` |
| Hostie | `wechaty-puppet-hostie` |
| Pad | `wechaty-puppet-padplus` |

For example, if you want to use the `Hostie` puppet, you should set `WECHATY_PUPPET=wechaty-puppet-hostie` before you run `npm start`.

> You also need a TOKEN for the `wechaty-puppet-hostie`, and set it to the `WECHATY_PUPPET_HOSTIE_TOKEN` environment variable.

### Linux

```sh
export WECHATY_PUPPET=wechaty-puppet-hostie
export WECHATY_PUPPET_HOSTIE_TOKEN='your_token_here'
npm start
```

### Windows

```sh
set WECHATY_PUPPET=wechaty-puppet-hostie
set WECHATY_PUPPET_HOSTIE_TOKEN='your_token_here'
npm start
```

## Advanced

### 1 Wechaty Tutorial

<div align="center">
<a target="_blank" href="https://blog.chatie.io/getting-started-wechaty/"><img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1361891/21722581/3ec957d0-d468-11e6-8888-a91c236e0ba2.jpg" border=0 width="60%"></a>
</div>

Above is a 10 minute video tutorial(a little outdated, it's running under v0.14 or older versions of Wechaty), which is a good way to start if you are new to Wechaty.

### 2 More Examples

> Note: Please make sure you can run `npm start` with this repository first before you go furture with more examples!

- [Official Wechaty Examples Directory](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/tree/master/examples)

## API REFERENCE

1. GitBook: <https://wechaty.js.org/api>

## SEE ALSO

### 1 Docker Wechaty Getting Started

[![Docker](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5429470?s=200)](https://github.com/Chatie/docker-wechaty-getting-started)

<https://github.com/Chatie/docker-wechaty-getting-started>

### 2 Heroku Wechaty Getting Started

[![Heroku](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/23211?s=200)](https://github.com/Chatie/heroku-wechaty-getting-started)

<https://github.com/Chatie/heroku-wechaty-getting-started>

### 3 Wechaty Home

<https://wechaty.github.io>

## FAQ

### 1. I can not login with my Wechat account

WeChat account that registered after 2017 will not be able to login via Web API.  Learn more at <https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/issues/872>

Solution: Wechaty support protocols other than Web API, such as pad. Learn more at <https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/issues/1296>

### 2. What is a `Puppet` in Wechaty

The term [Puppet](https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/wiki/Puppet) in Wechaty is an Abstract Class for implementing protocol plugins. The plugins are the component that helps Wechaty to control the Wechat(that's the reason we call it puppet).

The plugins are named `PuppetXXX`, like [PuppetPuppeteer](https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty-puppet-puppeteer) is using the [google puppeteer](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) to control the [WeChat Web API](https://wx.qq.com) via a chrome browser, [PuppetPadchat](https://github.com/lijiarui/wechaty-puppet-padchat) is using the WebSocket protocol to connect with a Protocol Server for controlling the iPad Wechat program. More detail you could go [Puppet in wiki](https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/wiki/Puppet).

## Wechaty Getting Started in Multiple Languages

[![Wechaty in Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Python-blue)](https://github.com/wechaty/python-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in Go](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Go-7de)](https://github.com/wechaty/go-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Java-f80)](https://github.com/wechaty/java-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in Scala](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Scala-890)](https://github.com/wechaty/scala-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-PHP-99c)](https://github.com/wechaty/php-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in .NET(C#)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-.NET-629)](https://github.com/wechaty/dotnet-wechaty)

- [TypeScript Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started)
- [Python Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/python-wechaty-getting-started)
- [Go Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/go-wechaty-getting-started)
- [Java Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/java-wechaty-getting-started)
- [Scala Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/scala-wechaty-getting-started)
- [PHP Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/php-wechaty-getting-started)
- [.NET(C#) Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/dotnet-wechaty-getting-started)

## Contributors

[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/0)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/0)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/1)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/1)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/2)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/2)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/3)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/3)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/4)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/4)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/5)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/5)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/6)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/6)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/7)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/7)

## Maintainers

[@wechaty/contributors](https://github.com/orgs/wechaty/teams/contributors/members)

## Copyright & License

- Code & Docs © 2018-now Huan and Wechaty Community Contributors (<https://github.com/wechaty>)
- Code released under the Apache-2.0 License
- Docs released under Creative Commons

Commit message:

Rename hostie -> service (https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty/issues/2122)

README.md, after:

# Wechaty Getting Started [![Powered by Wechaty](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20By-Wechaty-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/chatie/wechaty)

[![Node.js CI](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/workflows/Node.js%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Node.js+CI%22)
![Node.js v12](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D12-green.svg)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

[Wechaty](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty/) is a Conversational SDK for Chatbot Makers. It's well designed with a very easy to use API, supports all platforms including Linux, OSX, Win32, and Docker.

As a developer, you can use Wechaty to easily build your bot, effectively manage message sending/receiving, room creating/inviting, contact friendship, and delightful add artificial intelligence between users and your bot.

[![GitPod Ready-to-Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-Ready--to--Code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started)

This repository should work out-of-the-box, and is the best start point for Wechaty beginners.

## Features

1. Works out-of-the-box under Linux/Mac/Windows.
1. Supports all puppets like Web, Pad, Windows, and Mac.
1. Reply a `dong` message when it received a `ding`.

## Requirements

1. Node.js v12+
1. Build Tools for your platform
1. Wechaty TOKEN(if you want to use protocols other than Web)
    - Apply from our [Wechaty Puppet Service Providers](https://github.com/wechaty/puppet-service-providers)

## Getting Started

### 1 Install Node.js (>=12)

If you have not installed Node.js(or version is below 10),You need to install the latest version of Node.js first by following the links below:

- [Windows](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#windows)
- [Linux(Debian/Ubuntu)](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions)
- [macOS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#macos)

> Instal Node.js for other platforms can be found at <https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/>

### 2 Clone this Repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started.git
cd wechaty-getting-started
```

### 3 Install Dependencies

```sh
npm install
```

### 4 Run the Bot

```sh
npm start
```

Or use node to run bot directly

```shell
# Linux: export WECHATY_LOG=verbose
# Win32: set WECHATY_LOG=verbose
npx ts-node examples/ding-dong-bot.ts
```

You are all set!

## Working with Different Puppets

By default, the Wechaty will use the Web protocol (`wechaty-puppet-puppeteer`) for logging in bot.

If you want to use other protocols instead of the Web protocol, then you need to specified a puppet service provider other than the `wechaty-puppet-puppeteer`.

Thanks for the great contributions from our great community, there are many puppet service providers can be used by Wechaty, which helps us to use protocols like Web, Pad, Mac, and Windows.

In order to specify a puppet service provider, you can set the environment `WECHATY_PUPPET` to the specific NPM module name.

### Wechaty Puppet Service Providers

| Protocol | NPM |
| :--- | :--- |
| Web | `wechaty-puppet-puppeteer` |
| Service | `wechaty-puppet-service` |
| Pad | `wechaty-puppet-padplus` |

For example, if you want to use the `Service` puppet, you should set `WECHATY_PUPPET=wechaty-puppet-service` before you run `npm start`.

> You also need a TOKEN for the `wechaty-puppet-service`, and set it to the `WECHATY_PUPPET_SERVICE_TOKEN` environment variable.

### Linux

```sh
export WECHATY_PUPPET=wechaty-puppet-service
export WECHATY_PUPPET_SERVICE_TOKEN='your_token_here'
npm start
```

### Windows

```sh
set WECHATY_PUPPET=wechaty-puppet-service
set WECHATY_PUPPET_SERVICE_TOKEN='your_token_here'
npm start
```

## Advanced

### 1 Wechaty Tutorial

<div align="center">
<a target="_blank" href="https://blog.chatie.io/getting-started-wechaty/"><img src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1361891/21722581/3ec957d0-d468-11e6-8888-a91c236e0ba2.jpg" border=0 width="60%"></a>
</div>

Above is a 10 minute video tutorial(a little outdated, it's running under v0.14 or older versions of Wechaty), which is a good way to start if you are new to Wechaty.

### 2 More Examples

> Note: Please make sure you can run `npm start` with this repository first before you go furture with more examples!

- [Official Wechaty Examples Directory](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/tree/master/examples)

## API REFERENCE

1. GitBook: <https://wechaty.js.org/api>

## SEE ALSO

### 1 Docker Wechaty Getting Started

[![Docker](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5429470?s=200)](https://github.com/Chatie/docker-wechaty-getting-started)

<https://github.com/Chatie/docker-wechaty-getting-started>

### 2 Heroku Wechaty Getting Started

[![Heroku](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/23211?s=200)](https://github.com/Chatie/heroku-wechaty-getting-started)

<https://github.com/Chatie/heroku-wechaty-getting-started>

### 3 Wechaty Home

<https://wechaty.github.io>

## FAQ

### 1. I can not login with my Wechat account

WeChat account that registered after 2017 will not be able to login via Web API.  Learn more at <https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/issues/872>

Solution: Wechaty support protocols other than Web API, such as pad. Learn more at <https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/issues/1296>

### 2. What is a `Puppet` in Wechaty

The term [Puppet](https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/wiki/Puppet) in Wechaty is an Abstract Class for implementing protocol plugins. The plugins are the component that helps Wechaty to control the Wechat(that's the reason we call it puppet).

The plugins are named `PuppetXXX`, like [PuppetPuppeteer](https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty-puppet-puppeteer) is using the [google puppeteer](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) to control the [WeChat Web API](https://wx.qq.com) via a chrome browser, [PuppetPadchat](https://github.com/lijiarui/wechaty-puppet-padchat) is using the WebSocket protocol to connect with a Protocol Server for controlling the iPad Wechat program. More detail you could go [Puppet in wiki](https://github.com/Chatie/wechaty/wiki/Puppet).

## Wechaty Getting Started in Multiple Languages

[![Wechaty in Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Python-blue)](https://github.com/wechaty/python-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in Go](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Go-7de)](https://github.com/wechaty/go-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Java-f80)](https://github.com/wechaty/java-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in Scala](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-Scala-890)](https://github.com/wechaty/scala-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-PHP-99c)](https://github.com/wechaty/php-wechaty)
[![Wechaty in .NET(C#)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Wechaty-.NET-629)](https://github.com/wechaty/dotnet-wechaty)

- [TypeScript Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started)
- [Python Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/python-wechaty-getting-started)
- [Go Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/go-wechaty-getting-started)
- [Java Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/java-wechaty-getting-started)
- [Scala Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/scala-wechaty-getting-started)
- [PHP Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/php-wechaty-getting-started)
- [.NET(C#) Wechaty Getting Started](https://github.com/wechaty/dotnet-wechaty-getting-started)

## Contributors

[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/0)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/0)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/1)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/1)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/2)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/2)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/3)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/3)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/4)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/4)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/5)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/5)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/6)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/6)
[![contributor](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/images/7)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/huan/wechaty/wechaty-getting-started/links/7)

## Maintainers

[@wechaty/contributors](https://github.com/orgs/wechaty/teams/contributors/members)

## Copyright & License

- Code & Docs © 2018-now Huan and Wechaty Community Contributors (<https://github.com/wechaty>)
- Code released under the Apache-2.0 License
- Docs released under Creative Commons
